Changelog 152 (#128)
intellij-rust/intellij-rust.github.io: _posts/2021-08-02-changelog-152.markdown

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/implement-trait" w="600px" %}

    This intention action simplifies writing of trait impls. It automatically fills in `struct`/`enum`
    generics, generates implementations of trait members and allows you to replace trait generics.

  * [#6838] `Convert function to closure` to convert a local named function to closure (by [@nschoellhorn])

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/convert-function-to-closure" w="600px" %}

  * [#6813] `Convert closure to function` to convert a lambda expression to a local named function (by [@nschoellhorn])

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/convert-closure-to-function" w="600px" %}

  * [#6414] `Replace successive '_' with '..'` to replace redundant wildcards with a single `..` (by [@zeroeightysix])

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/replace-wildcards" w="600px" %}

  * [#7559] `Simplify dependency specification` to ...TODO inline tables in `Cargo.toml` dependencies

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/simplify-dependency-specification" w="600px" %}

* Completion improvements:

>   * [#7487], [#7551], [#7536] Add completion for lambdas in expression positions that expect a function (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: Maybe `that expect a callable`?

>   * [#7487], [#7551], [#7536] Add completion for lambdas in expression positions that expect a function (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer 2: OK

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/lambda-completion" w="600px" %}

  * [#7481] Add completion for `pub(crate)` and `pub()` visibility modifers (by [@Kobzol])

  * [#6410] Add completion for layouts in `#[repr()]` attributes (by [@zeroeightysix])

  * [#7534], [#7571] Improve completion of items inside impl trait (by [@Kobzol])

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/completion-member" w="600px" %}

* [#7532] Add quick fix to implement missing supertrait(s) for a trait impl block (by [@Kobzol])

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/implement-supertraits" w="600px" %}

* [#7492] Add a quick fix to remove an unused import (by [@Kobzol])

> * [#7479] TY&RES: support const arguments that looks like type arguments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7479] Support const arguments that look like type arguments
```
BTW not sure if it is easy to understand, maybe rephrase somehow?

* [#7519] Add postfix template named `.wrap` that wraps an existing type with another type (by [@Kobzol])

> * [#7499] added a new filter to the Structure View panel, which toggles whether macro-generated items
>   should be included in the Structure View (by [@afetisov])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7499] Add filter to [`Structure View`](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/viewing-structure-of-a-source-file.html) panel (<kbd>Ctrl + F12</kbd>) to hide macro-generated items (by [@afetisov])
```

Reviewer: The PR does not affect ctrl+f12 view =/

> * [#7495] The import optimizer will now remove unused imports (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7495] Remove unused imports by `Optimize Imports` action (`Code | Optimize Imports` or <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>Cmd</kbd>+<kbd>O</kbd>) (by [@Kobzol])
```

> * [#7321] `show macro expansion` actions and intentions now show a reason of the expansion failure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7321] `Show macro expansion` actions and intentions now show the reason for the expansion failure
```

* [#7308] Provide an experimental feature to add `--nocapture` flag to `cargo test` command

> * [#7228] Make links that look like Rust identifiers or paths (e.g., A, A::B, A::B::C) work correctly in
>   quick documentation by prepending `psi_element://` to them. It fixes #7209
>   Now clickable links inside stdlib docs should work properly (by [@shocoman])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7228] Properly construct links to Rust paths in [quick documentation](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-reference-info.html#quick-docs) (by [@shocoman])
```

> * [#6003] Allow inlining functions (using `Inline Function` refactoring) with diverging exit points

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#6003] Allow inlining functions with diverging exit points by `Inline Function` refactoring (`Refactor | Inline...` or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>N</kbd>) (by [@SaarYogev])
```

  (like `panic!()`) (by [@SaarYogev])

> * [#7563] Add option to enable unused import inspection in doctests

Reviewer 2: Let's group `Unused import` improvements together and mention that it is disabled by default. I'd place this group right after `Completion improvements`
```
* `Unused import` inspection improvements:
  * [#7492] Provide quick-fix to remove an unused import (by [@Kobzol])

  * [#7495] Remove unused imports by `Optimize Imports` action (`Code | Optimize Imports` or <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>Cmd</kbd>+<kbd>O</kbd>) (by [@Kobzol])

  * [#7563] Add option to enable unused import inspection in [doctests](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustdoc/documentation-tests.html)

  Note, this is disabled by default for now due to possible false-positive warnings. You can enable it via `Preferences | Editor | Inspections` [settings](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-analysis.html#inspection-settings)

## Performance Improvements

* [#7576] Slightly optimize `Find usage` for private items inside files with child modules

## Fixes

> * [#7521], [#7503] TODO-rename Support type aliases for all types (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer 2: Should we mention these changes? Are they visible to users?

Reviewer: Yes, for example, in inlay type hints

* [#7120] Take into account `pub(crate)` visibility in auto-import

> * [#6060] Check if the `asm!()` macro is contained in an unsafe block or function (by [@Stzx])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#6060] Check if `asm!()` macro is contained in an `unsafe` block or function (by [@Stzx])
```

* `Unused import` inspection improvements:

>   * [#7574] Take into account usages in custom derive proc macros in `unused import` inspection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * [#7574] Take into account usages in [custom derive] procedural macros
```
and add to the end:
```
[custom derive]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/procedural-macros.html#derive-macros
```

>   * [#7555] Fix false-positives related to unresolved method calls in `unused import` inspection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * [#7555] Fix false positives related to unresolved method calls
```

  * [#7552] Move `Unused import` inspection into `Rust/Lints` inspection group in settings

>   * [#7538] INSP: Disable `unused import` inspection in doctests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * [#7538] Disable `Unused import` inspection in doctests
```

>   * [#7535] Support method calls using type qualifier in unused import inspection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * [#7535] Take into account method calls with type qualifiers
```

>   * [#7496] Fix handling conditionally disabled (with `#[cfg()]` attributes) code in `unused import` inspection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * [#7564], [#7496] Do not remove unused imports disabled by `cfg` attribute
```

* [#7567] Render const generics in `Parameter Info` (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd>)

> * [#7564] Ignore conditionally disabled (with `#[cfg()]` attributes) imports when removing unused imports

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> * [#7553] Up/Down mover: add a trailing comma even when there are multiple elements in the last line (by [@t-kameyama])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7553] Add a trailing comma by [`Move Statement Up/Down`](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/working-with-source-code.html#move-statements) action (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Up</kbd>/<kbd>Down</kbd>) even when there are multiple elements in the last line (by [@t-kameyama])
```

> * [#6904] Up/Down mover: move vec macro arguments (by [@t-kameyama])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#6904] Fix [`Move Statement Up/Down`](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/working-with-source-code.html#move-statements) action on `vec!` macro arguments (by [@t-kameyama])
```

> * [#7547] Don't offer live templates (like `p` that inserts `println!()`) in patterns

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7547] Do not offer [live templates](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-generation.html#live-templates) in patterns
```

> * [#7546] INSP: add comma to match arm if needed in "Lift return out" (by [@t-kameyama])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7546] Add comma to match arm if needed by `Lift return` quick-fix (by [@t-kameyama])
```

* [#7540] Filter out existing features in dependency features completion

* [#7527] Enable [Go to generated declaration] line marker in WASM projects for 2021.2 platform

* [#7516] COMP: fix autoimport-aware completion after completion at empty place

* [#7428] Show crate roots first in the project view

> * [#7411] Take into account the `CARGO_HOME` environment variable when using crates local index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7411] Take into account the [`CARGO_HOME`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/guide/cargo-home.html) environment variable when using [crates local index](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/6463)
```

> * [#7383] Fix intention to convert an `impl trait` parameter to a generic parameter when the corresponding
>   function already has const parameters (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7383] Fix `Convert impl Trait` intention when the corresponding function already has const parameters (by [@Kobzol])
```

> * [#7334] Do not warn about missing format macro arguments if [`format_args_capture`] unstable feature is
>   enabled (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7334] Do not warn about missing format macro arguments if [`format_args_capture`](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/67984) unstable feature is enabled (by [@Kobzol])
```

> * [#7168] Fix false-positive [E0603](https://doc.rust-lang.org/error-index.html#E0603) "Module is private" when

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7168] Fix false-positive `Module is private` ([E0603](https://doc.rust-lang.org/error-index.html#E0603)) when
```

* [#7321] `Show macro expansion` actions and intentions now show the reason for the expansion failure

* [#7308] Provide a registry option `org.rust.cargo.test.nocapture` to add `--nocapture` flag to `cargo test` commands

* [#7228] Properly construct links to Rust paths in [quick documentation] (by [@shocoman])

* [#6003] Allow inlining functions with diverging exit points by `Inline Function` refactoring
  (`Refactor | Inline...` or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>N</kbd>) (by [@SaarYogev])

* [#7495] Remove unused imports by `Optimize Imports` action (`Code | Optimize Imports` or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>O</kbd>) (by [@Kobzol])

* `Unused import` inspection improvements:

  * [#7492] Add a quick fix to remove an unused import (by [@Kobzol])

  * [#7555], [#7535], [#7574] Fix false positives related to unresolved method calls, method calls with type qualifiers
    and usages in [custom derive] procedural macros

  * [#7552] Move `Unused import` inspection into `Rust/Lints` inspection group in settings

  * [#7538], [#7563] Disable `Unused import` inspection in [doctests],
    add an option in the [inspection settings] to enable it

>   * [#7564], [#7496] Do not remove unused imports disabled by `cfg` attribute

Reviewer 2: What about something like this?
```
  Note, this is disabled by default for now due to possible false-positive warnings. You can enable it via `Preferences | Editor | Inspections` [settings](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-analysis.html#inspection-settings)
```

  <img src="/assets/posts/changelog-152/alias.png" alt="type aliases" width="600px"/>

* [#7120] Don't suggest `pub(crate)` from other crates for auto-import

* [#6060] Check if `asm!()` macro is contained in an `unsafe` block or function (by [@Stzx])

  Note, the inspection is disabled by default for now due to possible false-positive warnings. You can enable it via
  `Preferences | Editor | Inspections` [settings][inspection settings]

* [#7567] Render const generics in `Parameter Info` (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd>)

* [#7553] Add a trailing comma by [`Move Statement Up/Down`] action
  (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Up</kbd>/<kbd>Down</kbd>) even when there are multiple elements in
  the last line (by [@t-kameyama])

* [#6904] Fix [`Move Statement Up/Down`] action on `vec!` macro arguments (by [@t-kameyama])

* [#7547] Do not offer [live templates] in patterns

* [#7546] Add comma to match arm if needed by `Lift return` quick-fix (by [@t-kameyama])

* [#7540] Filter out existing features in dependency features completion in `Cargo.toml`

* [#7527] Enable [Go to generated declaration] line marker in WASM projects for 2021.2 IDEs

> * [#7516] Fix autoimport-aware completion after completion at empty place

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7516] Fix auto-import-aware completion when invoked at an empty place
```

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #152"
date: 2021-08-02 12:00:00 +0300
---

## New Features

* Introduce new [intention actions]:

  * [#7480] `Implement Trait` to implement a trait for a `struct` or `enum` (by [@Kobzol])

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/implement-trait" w="600px" %}

>     This intention action simplifies writing of trait `impl`s. It automatically fills in `struct`/`enum`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This intention action simplifies the writing of trait `impl`s. It automatically fills `struct` or `enum`
```

  * [#6838] `Convert function to closure` to convert a local function to a closure (by [@nschoellhorn])

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/convert-function-to-closure" w="600px" %}

  * [#6813] `Convert closure to function` to convert a closure to a local named function (by [@nschoellhorn])

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/convert-closure-to-function" w="600px" %}

  * [#6414] `Replace successive '_' with '..'` to replace redundant `_` patterns with a single `..` (by [@zeroeightysix])

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/replace-wildcards" w="600px" %}

  * [#7559] `Simplify dependency specification` for dependencies in `Cargo.toml`

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/simplify-dependency-specification" w="600px" %}

* Completion improvements:

  * [#7487], [#7551], [#7536] Complete closure expressions in positions that expect a callable (by [@Kobzol])

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/lambda-completion" w="600px" %}

  * [#7481] Complete `pub(crate)` and `pub()` visibility modifiers (by [@Kobzol])

>   * [#6410] Complete [layouts] in `#[repr()]` attributes (by [@zeroeightysix])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * [#6410] Complete [layouts] in `repr` attributes (by [@zeroeightysix])
```
we usually write plain attribute names (e.g. `cfg`)

  * [#7534], [#7571] Improve completion for items inside `impl` blocks (by [@Kobzol])

    {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/completion-member" w="600px" %}

* [#7532] Provide quick-fix to implement missing supertraits for `impl` block (by [@Kobzol])

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/implement-supertraits" w="600px" %}

> * [#7519] Add `.wrap` [postfix template] that wraps an existing type with another type (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7519] Add `.wrap` [postfix template] that wraps an existing type in another type (by [@Kobzol])
```

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/wrap" w="600px" %}

* [#7499] Add filter to [`Structure View`] panel to hide macro-generated items (by [@afetisov])

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-152/filter" w="600px" %}

> * [#7321] `Show macro expansion` actions and intentions now show the reason for the expansion failure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7321] [`Show macro expansion`] actions and intentions now show the reason for the expansion failure
```
```
[`Show macro expansion`]: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-reference-info.html#macro-exansion
```

> * [#7308] Provide a registry option `org.rust.cargo.test.nocapture` to add `--nocapture` flag to `cargo test` commands

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7308] Provide an option to add `--nocapture` flag to `cargo test` commands. You can turn it on via `Registry... | org.rust.cargo.test.nocapture`
```
